Problem 1: Warehouse Scale Computers
a.True. A single large SMP does not have to communicate with other machines in a network, while having many smaller SMPs must suffer a penalty in the latency of communicating on the network. This penalty mostly by the amount of communication required for the job, as curve representing the amount of time wasted in communication levels out as the number of nodes increases.


b.False. Many applications are memory-bound so that faster CPU's do not scale well for large application, and slower CPUs are more cost-efficient.


c.True. The PUE measures the ratio of the total energy used by the facility to the enenergy used by all of the IT equipment. Because the energy consumption of the IT equipment is in both the numerator and the denominator, the ratio must be at least 1.


d.True. According to Figure 5.1 on page 48 of the book by Barroso and Holzle, the average power usage efficiency of 24 datacenters in 2007 was 1.83, meaning that 1 unit of power went to the IT equipment for every 0.83 used for facility maintenance. The survey may not be representative of datacenters in the present, however.


e.False. Servers will always be using some amount of power, even in their idle state. As such, when the serveres are not utilized they will have 0% efficiency. As seen on page 5 of Lecture 2's notes, there is a massive spike in energy efficiency when the load of the server increases from 0 to 10%, but increased load then begins to yield decreasing gains in efficiency.



Problem 2: MapReduce Questions
a.A combiner is like a smaller version of a reducer, and it combines the values of all key-value pairs from one mapper which have the same key.


b.Input key-value pairs must be the same time as output pairs because combiners may run multiple times. If the output pair were not the same type, multiple runs would not be possible.


c.Yes, combiners can start working as soon as it is given some amount of data to work with. It can start working on the data from a faster mapper and not worry about what is in a slower mapper because that is the reducer's job.


d.Yes, because there is such a large amount of data through which keywords must be searched for, it can be easily divided into smaller chunks for separate workers to search through.


e.Yes, in the shuffle phase data must be passed from the mapper workers to the reducer workers.



Problem 3: MapReduce Programming
a.A good way to represent the correlation between words and spam emails is the frequency with which certain words are in spam emails. This data should then be compared to other data representing the average frequency of these words within normal writing. If the frequency is significantly higher in spam emails than in the average email, it should be considered as potentially spam.


b.Map should give the mappers large chunks of text from different emails, and each mapper will count up the frequency with which certain words appear. Each output of map should have a word as a key and the number of times it appears as the value.


c.The combiner could be written to reduce the size of the output of a mapper by grouping up outputs with the same keys and adding up their values. For example, if there were 2 instances of ("word", 1) then the combiner would output ("word", 2) to reduce the amount of data which the reduce needs to process.


d.The reducer would essentially do the same thing as the combiner but on a larger scale, adding up all the instances of words across all mappers. Unlike the combiner, however, the reducer can only begin working once all mappers have finished.



Problem 4: Do in hw1.c
